Time to look at an age old phenomena called Doppler effect.
Looks like a familiar sight.
Some of you may have even got a speeding ticket.
If so, then say thanks to the Doppler effect.
What is Doppler effect? Let's take a look.
The capability of the radar to estimate
started velocity makes it a must-have sensor for self-driving cars.
The target velocity estimation helps in
better awareness of approaching and receding targets.
The transmitted frequency shifts lower for the receding targets.
As you can see, in the image,
the wavelength increases whereas the frequency shifts higher for
an approaching target and you can see the wavelengths are much smaller.
If you can calculate the shift in this Doppler frequency,
we can determine the velocity as well as the direction of the targets movement.
Using the given equation,
we can determine the relative velocity of the target.
Going back to the same scenario,
but now with an additional impact of Doppler frequency shift,
which is given here by f plus fd.
Here's an interesting part.
There is a moving target,
the Doppler frequency will add an additional shift in the beat frequency,
which in the image which is given by this shift.
The beat frequency which only corresponds to the range in the case of
stationary target will now have the Doppler shift as well.
Although in the case of automotive radar,
the Doppler shift is very small in comparison to the shift in frequency due to the range,
hence the Doppler velocity is calculated by measuring
the rate of change of phase across the multiple chips.